ref: create Remote Reference (config) (#4264)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/user-guide/data-management/remote-storage/amazon-s3.md

> # Amazon S3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Amazon S3 and Compatible Servers
```

# Amazon S3

<!--
## Amazon S3
-->

Start with `dvc remote add` to define the remote. Set a name and valid [S3] URL:

```cli
$ dvc remote add -d myremote s3://<bucket>/<key>
```

- `<bucket>` - name of an [existing S3 bucket]
- `<key>` - optional path to a [folder key] in your bucket

Upon `dvc push` (or when needed) DVC will try to authenticate using your [AWS
CLI config]. This reads the default AWS credentials file (if available) or
[env vars](#environment-variables).

[aws cli config]:
  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html

<admon type="info">

The AWS user needs the following permissions: `s3:ListBucket`, `s3:GetObject`,
`s3:PutObject`, `s3:DeleteObject`.

</admon>

[s3]: https://aws.amazon.com/s3/
[existing s3 bucket]:
  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/gsg/CreatingABucket.html
[folder key]:
  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/using-folders.html

## Custom authentication

> If you don't have a regular local S3 setup or if you want to change the auth

Reviewer: Not sure what `a regular local S3 setup` means, and `local` is used again with a different meaning at the end of the sentence. What about `If you don't have the AWS CLI installed/configured` or something to that effect if that's what you meant here?

Author: Going with this but I think AWS CLI is not the only way to setup a local S3 connection? Other apps or libraries may set the env vars as well. I guess it covers most people though:
```suggestion
If you don't have the AWS CLI configured in your machine or if you want to change the auth
```

(`session_token`):

```cli
$ dvc remote modify --local myremote \
                    access_key_id 'mysecret'
$ dvc remote modify --local myremote \
                    secret_access_key 'mysecret'
$ dvc remote modify --local myremote \
                    session_token 'mysecret'
```

[mfa]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_mfa.html

## S3-compatible servers (non-Amazon)

Set the `endpointurl` parameter with the URL to connect to the S3-compatible
service (e.g. [MinIO], [IBM Cloud Object Storage], etc.). For example, let's set
up a [DigitalOcean Space] (equivalent to a bucket in S3) called `mystore` found
in the `nyc3` region:

```cli
$ dvc remote add -d myremote s3://mystore/path
$ dvc remote modify myremote endpointurl \
                    https://nyc3.digitaloceanspaces.com
```

<admon type="info">

Any other S3 parameter can also be set for S3-compatible storage. Whether
they're effective depends on each storage platform.

</admon>

[minio]: https://min.io/
[digitalocean space]: https://www.digitalocean.com/products/spaces
[ibm cloud object storage]: https://www.ibm.com/cloud/object-storage

> ## Cloud versioning

Reviewer: Two thoughts on cloud versioning:

1. It could probably be moved closer to the top (see https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/4293)
2. You could drop `worktree` in this PR, or we can do it separately since it's being dropped

Reviewer: See https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/4309.

Author: Let me figure out another structure now that there's a single CV-related option (prob doesn't deserve an entire H2)... ⏳

Author: OK I moved it up (left the H2) and restructured the text to accommodate the change. PTAL @dberenbaum

# Amazon S3

`dvc remote add` a (new) remote name and a valid [S3] URL:

```cli

> $ dvc remote add -d myremote s3://<bucket>/<key>

Author: Created [Amazon S3 page](https://dvc-org-guide-data-mgmt-leaijc.herokuapp.com/doc/user-guide/data-management/remote-storage/amazon-s3), we can use as template for the remaining types.

  ```

- `access_key_id` - AWS access key ID. May be used (along with
  `secret_access_key`) instead of `credentialpath`.

  ```cli
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote \
                      access_key_id 'mysecret'
  ```

- `secret_access_key` - AWS secret access key. May be used (along with
  `access_key_id`) instead of `credentialpath`.

  ```cli
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote \
                      secret_access_key 'mysecret'
  ```

- `session_token` - AWS [MFA] session token (when required). May be used (along
  with `access_key_id` and `secret_access_key`) instead of `credentialpath`.

  ```cli
  $ dvc remote modify --local myremote \
                      session_token 'mysecret'
  ```

[aws-cli-config]:
  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html
[profile]:
  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-profiles.html
[mfa]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_mfa.html

## S3-compatible servers (non-Amazon)

Set the `endpointurl` parameter with the URL to connect to the S3-compatible
service (e.g. [MinIO], [IBM Cloud Object Storage], etc.). For example, let's set

> up a [DigitalOcean Space] (equivalent to a bucket in S3) called `mystore` found

Author: The Amazon S3 page includes the [non-Amazon, S3-compatible section](https://dvc-org-guide-data-mgmt-leaijc.herokuapp.com/doc/user-guide/data-management/remote-storage/amazon-s3#s3-compatible-servers-non-amazon), since it only involves one config option.
